---
title: Content
description: 'Nuxt UI enhances Nuxt Content with beautiful components and styling.'
framework: nuxt
category: integrations
navigation.icon: i-simple-icons-markdown
---

## Installation

To get started, you can follow the official [guide](https://content.nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/installation) or in summary:

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxt/content
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/content
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/content
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxt/content
```

::

Then, add the `@nuxt/content` module in your `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts] {4}
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@nuxt/ui',
    '@nuxt/content'
  ],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css']
})
```

::caution
You need to register `@nuxt/content` after `@nuxt/ui` in the `modules` array, otherwise the prose components will not be available.
::

::note{to="/docs/getting-started/theme#source"}
If your content includes Tailwind CSS classes, make sure to use the `@source` directive in your CSS file.
::

## Components

You might be using `@nuxt/content` to build a documentation. To help you with that, we've built some components that you can use in your pages:

- a built-in full-text search command palette with [ContentSearch](/docs/components/content-search), replacing the need for Algolia DocSearch
- a navigation tree with the [ContentNavigation](/docs/components/content-navigation) component
- a sticky Table of Contents with the [ContentToc](/docs/components/content-toc) component
- a prev / next navigation with the [ContentSurround](/docs/components/content-surround) component

## Typography

To make the most out of `@nuxt/content`, we've revamped our typography system in v3. Instead of using the `@tailwindcss/typography` plugin like in v1, we now provide custom implementations of all prose components directly within Nuxt UI. This gives us precise control over styling while ensuring perfect visual harmony with our design system.

::note{to="/docs/getting-started/typography"}
Learn more about the new **Typography** system and all the available components.
::

## Utils

### `mapContentNavigation`

This util will map the navigation from `queryCollectionNavigation` and transform it recursively into an array of objects that can be used by various components.

`mapContentNavigation(navigation, options?)`
- `navigation`: The navigation tree (array of ContentNavigationItem).
- `options` (optional):
  - `labelAttribute`: (string) Which field to use as label (`title` by default)
  - `deep`: (number or undefined) Controls how many levels of navigation are included (`undefined` by default : includes all levels)

**Example:** As shown in the breadcrumb example below, it's commonly used to transform the navigation data into the correct format.

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
import { mapContentNavigation } from '@nuxt/ui/utils/content'
import { findPageBreadcrumb } from '@nuxt/content/utils'

const { data: navigation } = await useAsyncData('navigation', () => queryCollectionNavigation('content'))

const breadcrumb = computed(() => mapContentNavigation(findPageBreadcrumb(navigation?.value, page.value?.path, { indexAsChild: true })).map(({ icon, ...link }) => link), { deep: 0 })
</script>

<template>
  <UPage>
    <UPageHeader v-bind="page">
      <template #headline>
        <UBreadcrumb :items="breadcrumb" />
      </template>
    </UPageHeader>
  </UPage>
</template>
```
